README file for enclosed data files.

The Gcal package encloses a collection of reminder/appointment files of
other packages, namely the BSD-`calendar' reminder files and the
[X]`Calentool-2.3' appointment files.  These original and untouched
files (except `dates/events5', in which I've quoted one `%)' text) are
stored in the `calendars/' and `dates/' subdirectories, and are
automatically converted during the installation process of `gcal' by
means of `awk' or `perl'.  The AWK and Perl scripts (stored in the
`scripts/' subdirectory) which I've worked out are not perfect but do
their job well for the enclosed reminder/appointment files.

These scripts don't break up the text part at any margin by default.
If you want to have text parts break up at a special margin, define
this in the variable `linebreak' (near the top of each script)
explicitly before you use the `install' target of the Makefile.  I
recommend to use a margin value of 40...50.  This is only an
experimental feature.  It does not guarantee any *nicer* representation
of texts, but I've implemented it because some people might find it
useful.

Some examples of ANSI-colored texts can be found in the file
`ansipic.rc', and some examples of *large* text graphics are stored in
the `textpic.rc' file.  I don't know whether there are any Copyright
conditions on the texts stored in both files, but I guess there are
none (hopefully).  By the way, if you have more of this stuff or if you
have other reminder/appointment files as distributed in the
`calendars/' and `dates/' subdirectories, I'd appreciate if you send
them to my eMail address (uuencoded `.tar.gz' preferred), so I'm able
to add them to the next release of Gcal.

Already received reminder/appointment files (thanks to the authors):

`meteoric.rc'
    Date:
          18-Sep-1996

    Author:
          Claus-Peter R"uckemann <ruckema@uni-muenster.de>

    Description:
          Meteoric showers - interval / maximum / number / radiant /
          velocity / comet

Because the collection of reminder/appointment files is enclosed
original and untouched AS IS, there is no warranty of any kind, either
expressed or implied!  The entire risk as to the quality and fitness
for a particular purpose is with you.

If conversion from other calendar management tools is required, some
converters can be found in the [X]`Calentool-2.3' package (written by
Bill Randle):

`cm2calentool.e'
     Converts *sun calendar manager* files to `Calentool' appointment
     files

`cal2ct.c'
     Converts `calendar' files to `Calentool' appointment files

`month2ct.c'
     Converts `month' files to `Calentool' appointment files

`mt2ct.c'
     Converts `monthtool' files to `Calentool' appointment files

Once you have converted a reminder/appointment file into the
[X]`Calentool-2.3' appointment file format, you can convert this file to
the Gcal format using `awk' or `perl' and the according script file
`ct2gcal.awk' respectively `ct2gcal.pl'.

Because the `%s[DATE]' ("starting date" of event) and `%e[DATE]'
("ending date" of event) special texts respected by former versions of
the Gcal program in the text part of a resource file line do not exist
in this style anymore in Gcal-2.20 or newer, there is a `old2v220' AWK
respectively Perl script in the `data/scripts' directory which converts
old-style resource files into the style used by Gcal-2.20 or newer.
See the top-level `ATTENTION' file for more details.

